Alright! Let's go ahead and complete the
assignment. So, I'm gonna come in over
here, create a new domain class.
Call that Vendor, just like the previous
REST that we were working with. Now, we
wanna add in @Data for Project Lombok,
@Document for Spring Data MongoDB to pick
this up,
and if I remember right, I think Spring
Data Mongo will automatically take any
property named id. But, it's good habit to
use @Id value here to explicitly say that.
And let's do a private
firstName. Let's try to spell first
right.
So, that is our entity. This will work
for our purposes. Now, let's come over
here and create the VendorRepository.
Definitely want that to be an interface
and extending the ReactiveMongoRepository, and we are going to use
Vendor for the type. And String is our id
value. So, that's all we need to do to set
up our Reactive Repository. Now, we we
also had an assignment to go ahead, and
part of this was to populate it. So, let's
go in, and I like to use a package called
bootstrap. This is still for my
Grails days. So, Grails are called
Bootstrapping.
That comes up kind of loosely from the
computers booting up.
That comes from an old American slang of
pull yourself up by your Bootstraps. I
don't know if everybody knew that or not.
Mark that as @Component.
I'm gonna do, have it implement the
CommandLineRunner.
And again, this is a Spring Boot class
that is gonna get run on startup,
and we are gonna implement
that. Now, what we wanna do here, also, is
get our repositories injected.
So, we're gonna do that.
Now, hitting command-N for constructor, and
this will allow Spring Boot to
automatically wire that up.
I've fat-fingered repository. It's gonna
fit.
Fix that. I'm gonna come in here. Refactor.
Rename that
and Spring Boot thinks that it cannot
autowire that, but it should be able to.
Just fixing that little typo there.
Now, we are happy.
And I'm gonna say if.
So, just to recap, what I'm doing here
with the Reactive Type, so I'm doing
category count, and then, I'm doing a
block on it, which tells it to
subscribe and invoke it. So, I've done
that. That we'll get a count other
repository. So, I'm saying if a count is
equal to zero, we're gonna load data.
Just putting in a message there that
I'll see in the log
and I am gonna show you a little
trick here. Come in here and do.
So, I'm gonna add in the Builder pattern.
Let's make it a little bit easier for us
to work with this. I'm gonna add that
into that guy too. So, I don't think I've
done the Builder pattern in the course
so far. That gives us a through Project
Lombok. We're gonna get a Builder, and
that action is gonna make what we're
doing here a little bit cleaner inside
the bootstrap
because what I wanna do is make this a
little more fluent. And without it, I'd
have to create a new object. So, let's
come in here to CategoryRepository save.
Now, let's do Category.
So, you can see how that's a little bit
cleaner. I'm just gonna copy this.
nicer.
And let's do a System.out.
So, that'll pick that up, and let's do the
same thing for Vendor.
Actually, I'm gonna do it all inside of one block.
Depends that, there's a couple different
philosophies there. Depending on how
you're setting things up here, what I
wanna do is I'm just looking for an
empty database. So, I'm gonna assume if
categories are blank, vendors will also
be blank. Depending on your environment,
that may or may not be a good thing to
do. But here, I'm gonna make that little
leap of faith and say that one is
blank, the other is gonna be blank as
well.
And again, this builder pattern, you
can see how that's a little nicer than
having to go out and create an object,
and then, set the properties and save it.
Much much nicer to work with.
Do some of the characters that we've
done in the past.
See, if anybody knows who Bill Nershi
is.
Let's do Jimmy Buffett.
And we also help with this.
And remember to do the block on the
Reactive Types, when you want that value.
Without doing that block, nothing were to
happen. I'm not sure what would happen
if we pass it to a toString. I'm not
gonna find out right now. But, we
definitely wanna be doing a block on
that. Now,
you can see that I have Docker running.
MongoDB also have a Postgres instance
running out there that I've been doing
some other development with. But here, we
are running the latest image of Docker,
and the important part is I have mapped
27017 into the container. So, that's
the main thing that you wanna be doing
there. Again, it's optional on how you
run Docker. You need on your local
system, Docker running on 27017. So,
Spring can find it when it starts up. So,
let's go ahead and start this.
Nope. What are we not happy about.
I know. So, stop this. Come over here. This
is a new project, and I need to come into
the Build Compiler.
I really wish this would default on
with IntelliJ. So, we need to enable the
annotation processing. Say, OK. Now, that
should go okay.
So, the annotation processors work out
great. Hold on one second.
And this should be an
@AllArgsConstructor.
That was my mistake there. So, when you're using
the Builder pattern and specifying
constructors, you can get into a little
problem. The Builder, by default, will not
create a no args constructor. It's kind
of like a little work around
here. And so, we want to have it build up
some arguments. So, we give it all args,
which is used by the Builder, and then, a
no args constructor, and then, Lombok is
happy. So, we need to do this to both of
them. So I picked out the wrong Lombok
annotation. So, this should be happy now.
Accidentally, when I was in there, I
think, I accidentally nuke the public
access, or another small mistake. Should
be happy now. Alright!
Now, we can see here's the System.out and
we did not get anything loaded.
Interesting.
And that is because we are working with
Reactive Types.
And that is going to return back a Mono. So, what
we need to do here is
block.
That was my mistake.
Now, let's try this again.
Because we're calling that save, it's a
Mono, but we never invoked the Mono
action. So, nothing ever happened. So,
nobody asked for it to doing anything so
it didn't do anything. So now, we can see
that we did get five categories
loaded and five vendors loaded, which is
exactly what we want. Now, if I restart
this, I expect will you will see zero
loaded.
And we should not have fallen in there.
So, I'm gonna pause this video and take a
quick look at this. So it is getting a
little long.
Okay, turned out to be nothing kind of
unique to my environment. I had a weird
thing going on, because what happened was,
I was running an experiment and I
removed the test compile on the embedded
Mongo, and then, it comes up all the time.
But if you leave tests compiled on it, it
does not. But, when I undid it, intellij
hiccuped and left it on the classpath so
it was coming up, and what happened is
when I ran it twice there, it was using
the embedded MongoDB driver. So, it's
coming up to a fresh Mongo instance. So,
let's come over here to Robo 3T and
maybe refresh this guy.
So now, we can see the two collections
over in Robo 3T. Initially, when I looked,
they weren't there. So now, this is
persisted. This is actually going against
it. So again, the reason that I
didn't see anything like that, because I
had a little hiccup. And if you change
this dependency here, actually, I might
demonstrate that real quick. Admit this
videos getting long. I'm not gonna do
that right now. But, just to recap, this
test compile dependency for the embedded
Mongo, if that is on your class path,
Spring Boot will auto-configure an
embedded Mongo instance. If it is not on
your class path, its gonna look for a
local Mongo instance, and what happened
there, it is IntelliJ hiccuped and it was
including that on the class path. So, I
was going to omit a database rather than
any permanent one or semi permanent
one running in Docker on my image. So,
we covered a lot of ground here. Hope you
found this valuable.